README.md, before:

Lock for Android
============
[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/auth0/Lock.Android.svg?style=flat-square)](https://circleci.com/gh/auth0/Lock.Android/tree/master)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://doge.mit-license.org)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.auth0.android/lock.svg)](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22com.auth0.android%22%20AND%20a%3A%22lock%22)
[ ![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/auth0/android/lock/images/download.svg) ](https://bintray.com/auth0/android/lock/_latestVersion)

[Auth0](https://auth0.com) is an authentication broker that supports social identity providers as well as enterprise identity providers such as Active Directory, LDAP, Google Apps and Salesforce.

## Key features

* **Integrates** your Android app with **Auth0**.
* Provides a **beautiful native UI** to log your users in.
* Provides support for **Social Providers** (Facebook, Twitter, etc.), **Enterprise Providers** (AD, LDAP, etc.) and **Username & Password**.
* Passwordless authentication using **SMS** and **Email**.

## Requirements

Android API Level 15+ is required in order to use Lock's UI.

## Install

Lock is available both in [Maven Central](http://search.maven.org) and [JCenter](https://bintray.com/bintray/jcenter). To start using *Lock* add these lines to your `build.gradle` dependencies file:

```gradle
compile 'com.auth0.android:lock:2.5.0'
```

## Usage

First go to [Auth0 Dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications) and go to your application's settings. Make sure you have in *Allowed Callback URLs* a URL with the following format:

```
https://{YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN}/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback
```


### Email/Password, Enterprise & Social authentication

You'll need to configure `LockActivity` in your `AndroidManifest.xml`, inside the `application` tag:

```xml
<activity
  android:name="com.auth0.android.lock.LockActivity"
  android:label="@string/app_name"
  android:launchMode="singleTask"
  android:screenOrientation="portrait"
  android:theme="@style/Lock.Theme">
    <intent-filter>
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />

      <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />

      <data
        android:host="{YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN}"
        android:pathPrefix="/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback"
        android:scheme="https" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Make sure the Activity's `launchMode` is declared as `"singleTask"` or the result won't come back in the authentication.

Also, you'll need to add *Internet* permission to your application:
```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
```

Then in any of your Activities you need to initialize **Lock**:

```java
// This activity will show Lock
public class HomeActivity extends Activity {

  private Lock lock;

  @Override
  protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    // Your own Activity code
    Auth0 auth0 = new Auth0("YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID", "YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN");
    lock = Lock.newBuilder(auth0, callback)
      //Customize Lock
      .build(this);
  }

  @Override
  protected void onDestroy() {
    super.onDestroy();
    // Your own Activity code
    lock.onDestroy(this);
    lock = null;
  }

  private LockCallback callback = new AuthenticationCallback() {
     @Override
     public void onAuthentication(Credentials credentials) {
        //Authenticated
     }

     @Override
     public void onCanceled() {
        //User pressed back
     }

     @Override
     public void onError(LockException error) {
        //Exception occurred
     }
  };
}
```

Then just start `LockActivity` from inside your `Activity`.

```java
startActivity(lock.newIntent(this));
```

### Passwordless & Social authentication

`PasswordlessLockActivity` authenticates users by sending them an Email or SMS (similar to how WhatsApp authenticates you). In order to be able to authenticate the user, your application must have the SMS/Email connection enabled and configured in your [dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/connections/passwordless).

You'll need to configure PasswordlessLockActivity in your `AndroidManifest.xml`, inside the `application` tag:

```xml
<activity
  android:name="com.auth0.android.lock.PasswordlessLockActivity"
  android:label="@string/app_name"
  android:launchMode="singleTask"
  android:screenOrientation="portrait"
  android:theme="@style/Lock.Theme">
    <intent-filter>
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />

      <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />

      <data
        android:host="{YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN}"
        android:pathPrefix="/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback"
        android:scheme="https" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Make sure the Activity's `launchMode` is declared as `"singleTask"` or the result won't come back after the authentication.

Also, you'll need to add *Internet* permission to your application:
```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
```

Then in any of your Activities you need to initialize **PasswordlessLock**

```java
// This activity will show Lock
public class HomeActivity extends Activity {

  private PasswordlessLock lock;

  @Override
  protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    // Your own Activity code
    Auth0 auth0 = new Auth0("YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID", "YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN");
    lock = PasswordlessLock.newBuilder(auth0, callback)
      //Customize Lock
      .build(this);
  }

  @Override
  protected void onDestroy() {
    super.onDestroy();
    // Your own Activity code
    lock.onDestroy(this);
    lock = null;
  }

  private LockCallback callback = new AuthenticationCallback() {
     @Override
     public void onAuthentication(Credentials credentials) {
        //Authenticated
     }

     @Override
     public void onCanceled() {
        //User pressed back
     }

     @Override
     public void onError(LockException error) {
        //Exception occurred
     }
  };
}
```

Then just start `PasswordlessLockActivity` from inside your `Activity`

```java
startActivity(lock.newIntent(this));
```

#### Android App Links - Custom Scheme
Currently the default scheme used for the redirect url used to send the Web Auth results is `https`. This works best for Android Marshmallow (API 23) or newer if you're using [Android App Links](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/index.html), but in previous Android versions this may show the intent chooser dialog prompting the user to chose either your application or the browser to resolve the intent. You can change this behavior by using a custom unique scheme, so that the OS opens the link directly with your app.

1. Update the Intent Filter definition in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file and change the current scheme to the new one.
2. Update the allowed callback urls in your [Auth0 Dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/clients) client's settings to match urls that begin with the new scheme.
3. Call `withScheme()` in the Lock.Builder passing the scheme you want to use.

> The scheme value **must** be lowercase. A warning message will be logged if this is not the case.

## Proguard
The rules should be applied automatically if your application is using `minifyEnabled = true`. If you want to include them manually check the [proguard directory](proguard).
By default you should at least use the following files:
* `proguard-gson.pro`
* `proguard-otto.pro`
* `proguard-lock-2.pro`

As this library depends on `Auth0.Android`, you should keep the files up to date with the proguard rules defined in the [repository](https://github.com/auth0/Auth0.Android).

## What is Auth0?

Auth0 helps you to:

* Add authentication with [multiple authentication sources](https://docs.auth0.com/identityproviders), either social like **Google, Facebook, Microsoft Account, LinkedIn, GitHub, Twitter, Box, Salesforce, among others**, or enterprise identity systems like **Windows Azure AD, Google Apps, Active Directory, ADFS or any SAML Identity Provider**.
* Add authentication through more traditional **[username/password databases](https://docs.auth0.com/mysql-connection-tutorial)**.
* Add support for **[linking different user accounts](https://docs.auth0.com/link-accounts)** with the same user.
* Support for generating signed [Json Web Tokens](https://docs.auth0.com/jwt) to call your APIs and **flow the user identity** securely.
* Analytics of how, when and where users are logging in.
* Pull data from other sources and add it to the user profile, through [JavaScript rules](https://docs.auth0.com/rules).

## Create a free account in Auth0

1. Go to [Auth0](https://auth0.com) and click Sign Up.
2. Use Google, GitHub or Microsoft Account to login.

## Issue Reporting

If you have found a bug or if you have a feature request, please report them at this repository issues section. Please do not report security vulnerabilities on the public GitHub issue tracker. The [Responsible Disclosure Program](https://auth0.com/whitehat) details the procedure for disclosing security issues.

## Author

[Auth0](https://auth0.com)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more info.

Commit message:

add /ro client grant types notes

README.md, after:

Lock for Android
============
[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/project/github/auth0/Lock.Android.svg?style=flat-square)](https://circleci.com/gh/auth0/Lock.Android/tree/master)
[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat)](http://doge.mit-license.org)
[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.auth0.android/lock.svg)](http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22com.auth0.android%22%20AND%20a%3A%22lock%22)
[ ![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/auth0/android/lock/images/download.svg) ](https://bintray.com/auth0/android/lock/_latestVersion)

[Auth0](https://auth0.com) is an authentication broker that supports social identity providers as well as enterprise identity providers such as Active Directory, LDAP, Google Apps and Salesforce.

## Key features

* **Integrates** your Android app with **Auth0**.
* Provides a **beautiful native UI** to log your users in.
* Provides support for **Social Providers** (Facebook, Twitter, etc.), **Enterprise Providers** (AD, LDAP, etc.) and **Username & Password**.
* Passwordless authentication using **SMS** and **Email**.

## Requirements

Android API Level 15+ is required in order to use Lock's UI.

## Install

Lock is available both in [Maven Central](http://search.maven.org) and [JCenter](https://bintray.com/bintray/jcenter). To start using *Lock* add these lines to your `build.gradle` dependencies file:

```gradle
compile 'com.auth0.android:lock:2.5.0'
```

## Usage

First go to [Auth0 Dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/applications) and go to your application's settings. Make sure you have in *Allowed Callback URLs* a URL with the following format:

```
https://{YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN}/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback
```


### Email/Password, Enterprise & Social authentication

You'll need to configure `LockActivity` in your `AndroidManifest.xml`, inside the `application` tag:

```xml
<activity
  android:name="com.auth0.android.lock.LockActivity"
  android:label="@string/app_name"
  android:launchMode="singleTask"
  android:screenOrientation="portrait"
  android:theme="@style/Lock.Theme">
    <intent-filter>
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />

      <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />

      <data
        android:host="{YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN}"
        android:pathPrefix="/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback"
        android:scheme="https" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Make sure the Activity's `launchMode` is declared as `"singleTask"` or the result won't come back in the authentication.

Also, you'll need to add *Internet* permission to your application:
```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
```

Then in any of your Activities you need to initialize **Lock**:

```java
// This activity will show Lock
public class HomeActivity extends Activity {

  private Lock lock;

  @Override
  protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    // Your own Activity code
    Auth0 auth0 = new Auth0("YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID", "YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN");
    lock = Lock.newBuilder(auth0, callback)
      //Customize Lock
      .build(this);
  }

  @Override
  protected void onDestroy() {
    super.onDestroy();
    // Your own Activity code
    lock.onDestroy(this);
    lock = null;
  }

  private LockCallback callback = new AuthenticationCallback() {
     @Override
     public void onAuthentication(Credentials credentials) {
        //Authenticated
     }

     @Override
     public void onCanceled() {
        //User pressed back
     }

     @Override
     public void onError(LockException error) {
        //Exception occurred
     }
  };
}
```

Then just start `LockActivity` from inside your `Activity`.

```java
startActivity(lock.newIntent(this));
```

### Passwordless & Social authentication

The Passwordless feature requires your client to have the *Resource Owner* Legacy Grant Type enabled. Check [this article](https://auth0.com/docs/clients/client-grant-types) to learn how to enable it.

`PasswordlessLockActivity` authenticates users by sending them an Email or SMS (similar to how WhatsApp authenticates you). In order to be able to authenticate the user, your application must have the SMS/Email connection enabled and configured in your [dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/connections/passwordless).

You'll need to configure PasswordlessLockActivity in your `AndroidManifest.xml`, inside the `application` tag:

```xml
<activity
  android:name="com.auth0.android.lock.PasswordlessLockActivity"
  android:label="@string/app_name"
  android:launchMode="singleTask"
  android:screenOrientation="portrait"
  android:theme="@style/Lock.Theme">
    <intent-filter>
      <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />

      <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
      <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />

      <data
        android:host="{YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN}"
        android:pathPrefix="/android/{YOUR_APP_PACKAGE_NAME}/callback"
        android:scheme="https" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

Make sure the Activity's `launchMode` is declared as `"singleTask"` or the result won't come back after the authentication.

Also, you'll need to add *Internet* permission to your application:
```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
```

Then in any of your Activities you need to initialize **PasswordlessLock**

```java
// This activity will show Lock
public class HomeActivity extends Activity {

  private PasswordlessLock lock;

  @Override
  protected void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
    super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
    // Your own Activity code
    Auth0 auth0 = new Auth0("YOUR_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID", "YOUR_AUTH0_DOMAIN");
    lock = PasswordlessLock.newBuilder(auth0, callback)
      //Customize Lock
      .build(this);
  }

  @Override
  protected void onDestroy() {
    super.onDestroy();
    // Your own Activity code
    lock.onDestroy(this);
    lock = null;
  }

  private LockCallback callback = new AuthenticationCallback() {
     @Override
     public void onAuthentication(Credentials credentials) {
        //Authenticated
     }

     @Override
     public void onCanceled() {
        //User pressed back
     }

     @Override
     public void onError(LockException error) {
        //Exception occurred
     }
  };
}
```

Then just start `PasswordlessLockActivity` from inside your `Activity`

```java
startActivity(lock.newIntent(this));
```

#### Android App Links - Custom Scheme
Currently the default scheme used for the redirect url used to send the Web Auth results is `https`. This works best for Android Marshmallow (API 23) or newer if you're using [Android App Links](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/index.html), but in previous Android versions this may show the intent chooser dialog prompting the user to chose either your application or the browser to resolve the intent. You can change this behavior by using a custom unique scheme, so that the OS opens the link directly with your app.

1. Update the Intent Filter definition in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file and change the current scheme to the new one.
2. Update the allowed callback urls in your [Auth0 Dashboard](https://manage.auth0.com/#/clients) client's settings to match urls that begin with the new scheme.
3. Call `withScheme()` in the Lock.Builder passing the scheme you want to use.

> The scheme value **must** be lowercase. A warning message will be logged if this is not the case.

## Proguard
The rules should be applied automatically if your application is using `minifyEnabled = true`. If you want to include them manually check the [proguard directory](proguard).
By default you should at least use the following files:
* `proguard-gson.pro`
* `proguard-otto.pro`
* `proguard-lock-2.pro`

As this library depends on `Auth0.Android`, you should keep the files up to date with the proguard rules defined in the [repository](https://github.com/auth0/Auth0.Android).

## What is Auth0?

Auth0 helps you to:

* Add authentication with [multiple authentication sources](https://docs.auth0.com/identityproviders), either social like **Google, Facebook, Microsoft Account, LinkedIn, GitHub, Twitter, Box, Salesforce, among others**, or enterprise identity systems like **Windows Azure AD, Google Apps, Active Directory, ADFS or any SAML Identity Provider**.
* Add authentication through more traditional **[username/password databases](https://docs.auth0.com/mysql-connection-tutorial)**.
* Add support for **[linking different user accounts](https://docs.auth0.com/link-accounts)** with the same user.
* Support for generating signed [Json Web Tokens](https://docs.auth0.com/jwt) to call your APIs and **flow the user identity** securely.
* Analytics of how, when and where users are logging in.
* Pull data from other sources and add it to the user profile, through [JavaScript rules](https://docs.auth0.com/rules).

## Create a free account in Auth0

1. Go to [Auth0](https://auth0.com) and click Sign Up.
2. Use Google, GitHub or Microsoft Account to login.

## Issue Reporting

If you have found a bug or if you have a feature request, please report them at this repository issues section. Please do not report security vulnerabilities on the public GitHub issue tracker. The [Responsible Disclosure Program](https://auth0.com/whitehat) details the procedure for disclosing security issues.

## Author

[Auth0](https://auth0.com)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more info.
